Now let's go to round two.
Okay, so this type actually exists in
TypeScript, it's called a return type.
But I have had to rename it so
we don't collide with that utility type.
We're gonna try to make this ourselves.
So just to look at this before I flip over
the playground, here's a good example.
I have a game of rock-paper-scissors
that takes in a number and
translate that to literally
the string rock or paper or scissors.
And I want my return type to be.
Rock or paper or scissors I want
these two types to be equal.
So let's try it out.
Does everyone understand
what the ask is here?
So for example,
So I would hope that P would
be a promise void right,
cause promise resolve is a function.
So return types first of all,
it's assumed that functions
are the things that have a return.
Therefore, we're only dealing
with function types of some sort.
So I would hope that this when
we're done turns into a promise, so
that resolves to a void.
So first how can I build in this
constraint of making sure that we're only
using function types here?
Does anyone have any ideas?
I'll give you two choices.
You tell me which one you would prefer.
We can either use a conditional type.
Remember, we've done things like this,
condition if true,
if false, right, and that seems like
we've done something that kind of
looks like this as a way to check whether
something's an array, or array ish.
We've also done this something like that.
So I'm actually going to
lead us down this path.
So I wanna see like is f, does it extend?
And then I want like I want to type
that represents any callable thing.
What's any callable thing conceptually,
what's,
what are the things we need
to be flexible around?
Like, I'll give you this.
That's an example of a callable zero
argument function that returns a number.
So what if we wanted to accept
functions with any number of arguments?
That's probably something we need to do,
return type has to work for
functions with lots of arguments or none.
How would we make this generic enough?
>> Like, spread the arguments?
>> Yeah, spread but when what type of
the arguing to be maximally flexible.
>> Any.
>> Yep an array of entities that's
give me zero or give me a million,
and they can all be whatever you want and
then here's the return type.
So our next bit of magic is
gonna be dealing with this.
This is in fact what we want, right?
This is the thing we want.
Has anyone ever captured something
like this and sort of plucked it out?
Anyone used the infer keyword before?
All right,
in a conditional type you can do this.
RT for return type,
notice I'm getting no error here yet.
And what we're saying is yet
there's something here there
is something here that I want
to almost as if is a type arm,
grab whatever that is, get that and
then I wanna use it and spit it out.
And there we go all our
test cases started to pass.
And here's our P promise, sorry it's
a promise unknown under promise void.
So in summary, we're able to peel
away the return type of function by
saying first of all we said okay we need
to make sure we match the right thing.
And we made the most flexible function
type we possibly could which would have
been this right function that takes any
number of anything and returns anything.
It's like any callable
thing will match that type.
And then we replace
this any with infer RT,
which lets us define a new,
almost like a type parameter.
We can use it just like a type
parameter over here actually look at
the tooltip type parameter, right.
So and then from that point forward
in any of these branches of
this conditional type we can use that.
We could use that as flexibly as
if it were over here all, right?
So you could pass it through
like an indexed access type,
you can do whatever you
want to do with it.
So there we go, return up.
And I wonder,
If in here I can see the core thing.
No I can't but
I can go over to my editor real quick,
let's see how this was implemented.
Okay, so this is the equivalent in core
and the TypeScript declaration files.
So they have a constraint here, which
will give people early feedback when they
tried passing something
that's not a function.
And remember how we said like,
we can, we don't have to have.
This is when we're talking
about variadic tuples.
We're talking about like spreading
an array is T versus whatever.
So I guess we don't even need
to do an array of anys cuz
it's sort of spreading anything,
and then here we go,
T extends this, here's our infer R.
And they're kind of,
instead of falling out with a never,
they chose to fall out with an any.
This is more compatible this will but
it'll fail in ways
that may not be obvious to you like
if I pass in actually it won't right.
Cuz you'll get an error here for
any non function cuz you won't match
that constraint on the generic.
And then over here like I don't really see
any situation where you'd end up going
down this path so it doesn't
really matter what they put here.
But cool we just made one of
TypeScript's types core utility types.
All right, Split, so
I've been suggesting that we go here for
a little while now.
How do we do effectively the type version
of string.split using only types?
So in this case if I
want to split by space,
I should get up this list of broken words.
How are we going to do that?
I literally see jaws agape in the room.
[LAUGH] Is it even possible?
I'm gonna tell you straight up I don't
quite I have this one memorized.
So we're gonna work through it together
and you'll see how I kinda approach this.
So it is likely recursion
will be necessary here.
Because what we can do with
a template literal type is,
we can certainly figure out how to
extract something to the left of.
Or something to the right of some thing
in the same sense that we were able
to do ends with remember,
like ice cream ends with cream.
And we can actually use that infer keyword
to pluck something out of a larger string,
and to keep moving forward with that.
So let's see if we can handle
some basic cases first.
So we can say, all right, we've got s for
the string and set for the separator.
So if s extends, string and
separator sorry s extends and
then we got to do infer rest.
So that's like the remaining
piece of the string or
that's the piece of the string
to the left of the separator.
Okay, so
let me experiment with what we have here.
So split and then we'll say hello world.
Split by space.
And what is the type of X?
It's just hello world that didn't
seem to do much of anything.
Let's try the other way.
What's going on here?
Are there, nope, just one space.
Okay, let's see if s extends.
The separator,
what I probably need is, I need this.
I can flick out two things.
Yep, there's hello coming out.
And then what happens when I use t here?
There's world code coming out.
>> And his rest here is that
like a keyword in TypeScript?
>> Nope, it's just another type parameter.
So you can use more than one
infer in a situation like this.
So I'm getting kind of the left and
the right part
of the first occurrence of this separator,
so
just to be clear,
see how I'm getting worldspace again.
So it sort of it matches almost like
a regular expression caching right it'll
match on the first occurrence.
And then we can get everything that
happens before leading right up to
the first occurrence and then the rest.
So what I want is to kinda
grab this first thing and
I want to put it into a tuple.
Like this, And so
that'll give me the first thing.
And then I want this.
Recurse in, so
what's our new string, it's T,
it's the tail, T for tail,
and the same separator.
And what are we gonna get?
Hello world again, we're getting real
close, you had an answer for us.
When we were doing our
concatenating two arrays,
do you remember how we got
that concatenation to happen?
>> Spread or destruction?
>> What's going on here?
A rest element type must be an array type.
What if we do this?
So close, There we go,
okay, we have some of
the things passing here.
I'm not sure if I'm going to get
through through all of them.
But so let me talk you
through what we have so far.
We have effectively this is our condition,
right?
It's everything to the left
of this question mark.
And we're saying does s match
this pattern of some word?
Some texts that does not match
the separator followed by the separator,
followed by the any kind
of text that may follow,
might be a mix of separators and
other things.
If that's true, place the word to the left
of the separator, the space in this case.
That's the first thing in the tuple,
and then do this whole process again.
Passing the right side of
the separator in as the new string so
it's like we're breaking this down now.
And then if nothing matches, if for
example we just said we did this.
I would expect just one tuple to come back
just like string.split it'll just say,
all right here you go.
It's like the whole thing, right?
Okay, so I think we're on the path
let's see what tests are failing.
Interesting, okay, so here's an edge case.
We have an empty string.
Splitting by an empty string
seems to be causing us problems.
Splitting an empty string by
an empty string seems to be
causing us problems, okay?
Little edge case-y there.
Splitting an empty string by Z seems fine.
And that does not surprise me
because that's this case right here.
We're sort of falling straight through.
And then splitting the set of all
possible strings, an arbitrary string.
Remember we're dealing with types here,
like effectively when we
don't have string literals.
The string type just sort of falls
through it, it turns into a string array.
So looking at the pattern here,
what I can see is splitting by empty
string seems to be causing us problems.
What I'm going to do is
grab this test case.
And I want to bring it up so that we
can see what it actually evaluates to.
And I suspect we're gonna have,
An extra string of some sort,
maybe an empty string at the end.
Look at that.
That little empty string at the end,
that little jerk.
So something's falling through.
It's almost like it's tough
to imagine how this works.
But yes, there's nothing leftover, but
that nothing is it's not
necessarily an empty array.
It's It's just kind of falling out.
So here's what I can do.
I know this empty string is likely to
be the very last tread that's left
as everything's been peeled off.
That means we're gonna be in
this part of the code right?
So I want to add one
more conditional here.
And I'll say if s extends empty string,
then return an empty topple otherwise,
the remaining nonzero length
piece of the string and
look at that a little empty
string at the end disappeared.
We're so close,
let's grab this little piece here.
I could solve this a couple ways.
So what I'd hoped to get out of this,
what the test case says I should get
out of this is an array of strings.
And what I'm getting out instead is
a tuple of length one containing a string.
So a quick way I can
solve this is down here,
I could just say well I could do
one more conditional if I want to.
Now, this one's tricky because I need to
know that I am not a specific string,
I need to know that I'm the string type.
Here's how we can do that,
string extends s.
So remember, It's
like small object fitting into big door,
right?
So if I have a very specific thing,
do you match?
Are you any of the strings
that are available?
Of course that will pass, but
I want to flip these around.
And I wanna say, look, does this general
thing, is that equal to the small thing?
I wanna flip that around, that's why
changing the positions here is important.
Do we get it?
Then we got that last test.
And finally we're down to this one.
Does this make sense?
Does string extend type s?
So if s is just the color,
the string red like this will fail.
The set of all strings, not all
the strings are exactly this one thing.
So sort of it's less about an equal thing.
It's more like a greater than or
equal to this extends operator.
All right z, what are we getting?
This is evaluating to, an empty tuple.
You know what,
I'm gonna leave this as an exercise for
you all to continue if you wish.
One way to solve it I'll
just tell you is you could,
I mean there probably is a more elegant
way to do this, you could peel this thing,
this piece here all the way up to
the very top and sort of early terminate.
If ever you're given an empty string,
no matter what you're splitting it by,
just return an empty tuple.
It's the same thing.
I think we would just end up rearranging.
But I'll leave you all to
poke around with that.